whenever I bike after a rain I am like
keenly aware of seeing all the oil
slicks on the street and as we know
storm water washes all of that into the
system and then if it's not able to go
to the treatment plant goes right out to
our waterways and as more and more
people come and live here because it is
a beautiful place I think it becomes
more and more important that we take
steps to protect this great environment
that we have about two-thirds of the
city is what we call a combined sewer
system and that means storm water and
sewage flow into the same pipe
from there flow to the treatment plan
for treatment that's one of the great
things about a combined sewer system the
bad thing is when there's a large storm
event there's not enough room for the
sewage or the storm water in the system
and so it spills out the ship canal
water quality project is happening
because the overflow points in the
combined sewer system along the ship
canal and the north side of Lake Union
overflow more frequently than any other
overflows elsewhere in the city this
tunnel is a long linear storage tank
that will extend from Wallingford to
ballard when it's a large rain event and
we're close to overflowing out into Lake
Union or the ship canal those overflows
will spill down into the tunnel rather
than spilling out into those water
bodies after the rainfall event has
passed the flows will be pumped back
into the system and sent to the
wastewater treatment plant Magnolia it's
not open pit mining it's not destroying
houses it's going underneath the city is
doing it in a safe mode is putting it in
air so be there forever I mean we can't
really go into this district that was
built you know hundreds of years ago and
separate the storminess and the sewer
waters would just be astronomical costs
yet we have a facility over at West
Point that can handle all of it if it
gets it at the right rate so all we're
doing is controlling flow this project
helps plan for the future and I just
believe that more people ought to be
concerned about what that's going to be
and we need to do everything we can to
minimize the pollution ultimately
building a tunnel is much less impactful
to the
community both during construction and
afterwards during operations this tunnel
will be quite a bit smaller than versa
about 14 feet in diameter Bertha's
larger than 50 feet in fact this Tuttle
is smaller in diameter than the tunnels
that are being built for sound transit
light rail throughout the city right now
The Ship Canal partnership that SP you
and King County are working together on
is a great example of agencies coming
together to address regional pollution
especially looking at being efficient
with our financial resources as well as
the environmental impacts of these kinds
of projects though the waterfront the
ship canal the cut it's all really
important to all of these neighborhoods
whether it's bringing your kids down to
the beach to play or whether it's
paddleboarding kayaking or taking your
boat out through the Ballard Locks you
know there's something that we all enjoy
doing down here on the waterfront we're
in the very early planning phases of
this project but as we move into design
and construction we're going to be
looking for every possible way that we
can minimize the impacts of the
construction and future operations
community involvement is very important
to us with this project we want to get
the community involved and we want to
build a project that they can feel
supportive